1. DynamoDB:
	a) Enable AutoScaling for DynamoDB table to dynamically adjust provisioned read/write capacity.


Network LoadBalancer uses:(Over classic loadbalancer)
	a) Ability to handle volatile workloads and scale to millions of requests per second

	b) Support Static IP addresses for the load balancer. You can also assaign one Elastic IP per subnet enabled for the load balancer.

	c) Supports for registering targets by IP address, including targets outside the VPC  for the load balancer.

OpsWork:
	a) It is configuration management service of EC2 instances


AWS Direct Connect:
	--Establish a dedicated connection between your on-premise to AWS.
	-- Private connection between AWS and your datacenter, office or colocation, reduce the network cost, increase the bandwidth.



Inbound requests can be stopped at subnet level, using NACL with deny [IP address]

egress-only Internet Gateway: (VPC level)
	a) All IPV6 address are public by default. if your instance able to access the internet but prevent resources on internet to communicate with instance.
NAT instance & NAT Gateway:
	a) Used only for instances in the private subnet to communicate with the internet.

VPC:
	a) if you want your VPC works with both IPV4 and Ipv6, you must ensure the your VPC works on dula-stack mode.

Route53:
	a) weighted Route policy is used to load balancing test new versions of software.

Billing:
	a) cost & usage reports provides comprehensive cost details for all resources in AWS with support of multiple files, adjusting columns in the file.

AWS WAF(Web Application firewall):(Customization of AWS Shield service)
	a) Cross-site scripting
	b) Ip Adress blocking
	c) Lenght of request
	d) SQL Injection
	e) Geographic Match
	f) String Match

AWS Shield:
	a) Manged solution where all security filters are applied by AWS

IAM:
	a) What can this user do in AWS? -- IAM policies
	b) Who can access this S3 bucket? -- S3 Bucket Policies
	c) S3 ACL-- Object specific permission in single bucket.

S3:
	a) for server logs delivered to the target bucket, encryption should be SSE-S3

AWS System Manager:
	a) State manager is used to command document to keep amazon EC2 in a predefined state.

AWS Guard Duty: (VPC Flow logs,CloudTrailEvent logs, DNS logs)
	a) used to include custom IP address for generating findings to detect malicious activities.
	b) Guard Duty maintains:
		Trusted Ip list & Threat List